[MUSIC]
>> Speaker 1: So how does everybody
feel about the last exercise
we did as far as going through this
blueprint and actually making the routes?
Now if you didn't get
finished that's totally fine.
I'm not so worried about if you actually
finished it as much as I am with you
actually understanding what you had to
do and what needed to be done, right?
So if you knew the gist of, yeah I
need to make a route that does this.
I'm just having a hard time messing
around with the syntax of, or
the nuances of the framework, that's fine.
I mean, that can be resolved easily by
me coming around, or a quick search.
But the hard thing to know is
what you're actually doing.
That's the part that I'm trying to teach
you.
>> Speaker 1: So
this process that I'm showing you right
here is a very similar process on a very
small scale of how you
would design an API, right?
So start with the resource, start with
the routes to access the resource and
what they do.
And then go ahead and implement that.
That's like a very low level.
And this is, it's super low level
because we don't have a database or
anything like that.
But even with a database,
it's very similar to this.
>> Speaker 1: Cool.
Any questions on this
stuff before we move on?
>> Speaker 2: One quick one,
and you don't have to
spend a lot of time on it.
Any just thoughts on naming of things or
plurals versus singulars and
stuff, or guidelines to follow?
>> Speaker 1: Are you talking about
routes?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Speaker 1: Yeah,
I haven't read the 50 or
100 spec on [INAUDIBLE] but
I'm pretty sure that if
you follow the rest of
the the resources should be pluralized.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Speaker 1: Yeah, pretty sure.
>> Speaker 2: And is there, and for
someone that's a little bit
more green in this area,
is there some reference
that you recommend?
Or does anyone know, if they're
listening to the stream, do you want
to pop it on chat, that'd be awesome.
>> Speaker 1: For RESTful stuff?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, just in general
>> Speaker 1: There's endless stuff.
I couldn't recommend one
that I felt comfortable,
there's so much stuff out there.
But just start reading.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Speaker 1: You just gotta find one
that, I mean,
if I Google it, it'll be 1,000 pages of
>> Speaker 2: No
problem.
>> Speaker 1: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Thanks
>> Speaker 1: Okay, so now we're gonna
talk about middleware.
>> Speaker 1: Anybody want to tell me
their definition of middleware?
I kinda got into it earlier,
but don't look at it.
Tell me what you think it is.
>> Speaker 1: Nobody?
Yes.
What is it?
>> Speaker 2: Kind of like utility classes
to help Express do the dirty work.
>> Speaker 1: I like that.
A set of utility classes help
Express with dirty work.
I like it.
Anybody else?
>> Speaker 1: No, okay.
So, what you were describing
is what middleware would do.
That's pretty much exactly right.
It's definitely gonna help
Express do some dirty work.
But middleware is the backbone of Express.
So I was telling you Express
is really just two things.
It's a routing framework that allows us to
have advanced, really what it does is it
sits on top of the HTTP module and
it sets up these events.
Because Node has this eventing system.
The HTTP modules fires off events
depending on what requests comes in.
Express listens to those events and
registers callbacks that
fire to specific routes
that are used to regexes.
And then for each route that's registered,
it'll keep a stack of middleware.
Which is just an array of functions
that it will call in order
before it calls the last function.
So, middleware, when you hear me say
middleware, it's just a function.
That's all it is, it's just a function.
When I say middleware,
I'm talking about one function.
So, middleware is a function with
access to the request object,
the response object,
and the next function.
So, the next function is a function
that when called will go to
the next middleware.
That's why it's referenced as next.
So, you'll do some stuff in a function,
maybe you'll change the request object,
maybe you'll delete this,
maybe you'll query the database here.
And then when you're done,
you'll say next,
and it'll go to the next
function in the middleware.
Which could be the last function, or
another piece of middleware
that you created.
So to
>> Speaker 1: so
in our example, this right here,
so this is global middleware.
So express.static is a function
that returns another function.
So, like I said, this is a function
So, like this.
Var results.
>> Speaker 1: This
returns another function.
So, we're putting result in here.
That's what's happening, like this.
And then result is a function
that looks like this.
It kinda looks like this.
>> Speaker 1: It takes in a request,
a response, and then next.
That's what result looks like.
And then it'll do some stuff.
And then when it's done, it'll say next.
And then when it calls next,
it'll go to this one.
And this will do the exact same thing.
It'll do some stuff and
then it'll go next.
And this'll do the exact same thing, and
it'll do whatever it needs to do its job,
and then it will say next.
And it'll come down to our routing.
And then whatever route that actually
came in, it'll hit that one.
So when it says next, okay,
now I'm gonna go here to this piece.
Yeah?
>> Speaker 2: So is it just like a series
of callbacks that we chain together?
>> Speaker 1: That's exact,
that's all it is.
It's just a stack of functions.
>> Speaker 2: Gotcha.
>> Speaker 1: And it won't go to the next
one until you tell it to.
>> Speaker 2: Gotcha.
>> Speaker 1: So that's pretty much what
middleware is.
>> Speaker 1: So
middle wear can run any code.
So, like i said, it's just a function.
So it can run any code that
you could run anywhere else.
So, a database call.
You make a call to another server.
Maybe even send a response
back to the client.
It can do anything that we did
in any of these call backs here.
It's just a function.
We can do whatever we want.
That's why we have this middleware that,
oops,
let me go back.
>> Speaker 1: That's why we have
this middleware up here that we
downloaded, or expressed our static,
which serves a static assets for us,
or body parts that encodes the URL.
Or bodyParser.json that takes
everything and converts it to JSON and
puts it on the body for us.
It can do whatever it wants,
as long as it follows a few simple rules.
So it can do whatever it wants.
But as far as changing the request object,
the the response object, but
it at least must end the request
response cycle, or it must call next.
If it doesn't do one of those,
then your service is gonna hang.
So if you don't believe me,
I'm gonna show you.
So I'm gonna say app.use.
I'm just gonna make some
middleware right here.
It takes in a request,
a response, and then next.
And what I'm gonna do is
I'm gonna say console.log.
>> Speaker 1: First middleware.
>> Speaker 1: All right.
So, I'm gonna start the server.
>> Speaker 1: So, port 3000.
So, soon as I make a request to it,
it's gonna run the middleware.
So this is gonna make
a request on port 3000.
It's gonna refresh, okay.
So you can see it's hanging.
It's still loading.
If I go back to the terminal
>> Speaker 1: first middleware logs.
It didn't go anywhere else.
It's just sitting there.
Cuz I didn't say next, or
I didn't do a response.
So it's just like,
I'm just gonna sit here until I time out.
All right?
So, you have to make sure you do
that inside your middleware.
So to fix that, I could just say next,
which will go here.
Or I can just send back a response back
to the client, and it'll be like, yeah,
okay, yeah, yeah, yeah.
And end the cycle,
which would not go to next.
So, everybody follow me there?
Yeah?
>> Speaker 2: Can you set
middleware after a route, or
is it done once you hit that routing step?
>> Speaker 1: Can you set
middleware after-
>> Speaker 2: If you clean up after
a route or something like that.
>> Speaker 1: You can set,
as long as you, so all these routes
here are actually middleware, too.
So all these have a next function, too.
>> Speaker 1: Every route that we have,
we just didn't use them.
There's a next function here.
So when you call next inside this route,
it will also go to another
middleware unless you respond it.
The reason we didn't put next
here is cuz we were responding.
So we couldn't say, yeah, respond and
then go to next.
>> Speaker 1: Cuz actually
two things are gonna happen.
One, there is no next.
There's nothing after this
in the middleware chain.
And two, we already responded.
So it's just gonna break.
>> Speaker 1: But, yeah,
you could theoretically.
So if you had this route set up and
you wanted to go somewhere after this,
you just need not to respond.
But then technically this
wouldn't be a route handler,
it'd just be middleware, right?
We're gonna get into how to use
middleware in different places and
controller methods.
But yeah, you could.
These are all the same thing.
As long as you call next,
it will go to the next thing in the stack.